US Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
has called for the protection of
civilians as Israel prepares for an
expected assault on Gaza during a
meeting with his Saudi counterpart
Prince faal bin faran in Riyad blinkin
said that while Israel has a legitimate
right to defend its people it was quote
vitally important to protect civilians
and that the US and Saudi Arabia were
working together to do so blinkin also
phoned his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi
to urge Beijing to use its influence in
the Middle East to stop the conflict
from spreading
chinia Bano is a visiting fellow at the
European Council on Foreign Relations I
asked her if the normalization talks
between Israel and Saudi Arabia could be
resurrected or if it was completely off
the table definitely can be resurrected
because at at the basis of that
normalization process I have to say that
you know there are real very real
interests on both on all the sites
involved um the Saudis do want to have
stronger relations with Israel um and
also use this agreement to um sort of
get a get a renewal of US security
commitments to the region because Saudi
Arabia um is aware that to contain the
risks emanating from Iran and others
they need both engagement and deterrence
the Israelis obviously have a very
strong political interest um in signing
on to this normalization because it
would unlock um a number of other Rel
relationships through out the Arab and
Islamic world and the United States has
a strong interest because first of all
they want to relinquish some of their
responsibilities as security actor in
the region to Israel and at the same
time they also are aware that this would
play out very well politically for the
administration that would be responsible
for facilitating such an agreement that
is simply that those interests are going
to stay but this is really not the time
it's politically toxic to now to look at
this file so it's going to take months
if not more to be able to revisit that
file well if you can just look at the
short ter term news now those hundreds
of thousands of gazin fleeing South uh
and some of them in danger of you know
being harmed by the impending Israeli
assault how much influence does Saudi
Arabia have in mitigating that possibly
do you
think well not a lot um if you look at
the Israeli side I mean um there there's
a reason a lot of Israeli commentators
officials and so on are calling what
happened on October 7th hour 911 and
among the reasons is that the Israeli
government um retaliation or reaction
frankly does not seem to be very
rational at all and that's exactly what
happened with the US Government after
911 um so it would be you know this the
Saudis could possibly entice Netanyahu
to restraint where they willing to offer
you know an continuation of that uh
process of normalization of relations
but it's arguably already too late
because the Arab and Islamic public
opinion worldwide is already quite um
sort of enraged so it wouldn't allow it
it's already too late for that and on
the Hamas side Saudi Arabia consider
Hamas a terrorist organization they have
dozens of Hamas leaders in their in
their own jails and they have very
limited relations I mean arguably Iran
is the one Regional player which still
has intact leverage on Hamas understood
thank you for that Insight chin Bano
visiting fellow at the European Council
on Foreign
Relations a sign for every
hostage more than a week after Hamas
struck Israel with Terror killing and
kidnapping civilians people have come to
together here in Tel
Aviv some are blaming the government
others came in solidarity with victim's
families May belongs to one of them the
24y old is missing six of her own family
members at around 10:30 a.m. terrorists
entered their home dozens of them armed
with knives waving the knives at them
and shouting I spoke with theone at the
last minutes and she sent me recording
my there are terrorists here we are
alone they are
shouting donon cats is her aunt she was
taken together with her small daughters
Aviv and RZ they were visiting family in
n a kibuts close to Gaza Ravid Kats the
uncle is missing too as is elderly
mother ifat and her husband God Moshe
Moses I'm here because my family has no
voice right now they are dead or
kidnapped I'm here to be their voice I
expect from the world the maximum amount
of
intervention she learned what happened
through a Hamas Tik Tok video my tells
us her aunt's phone was later located in
Gaza the situation is desperate myant is
a German citizen but in her situation
that doesn't
help it wasn't just Israelis that Hamas
killed and kidnapped 43 different
nationalities were represented among
their
hostages as many as 150 people have been
abducted and are belief to still being
held hostage in Gaza their families
don't know where they are how they are
doing and if if they're even still
alive people in Israel are united in the
conviction that there needs to be a
response but what exactly this should
look like at least at this protest isn't
clear the Israeli government must Focus
first of all on doing whatever is
necessary in order to release the
hijacked people instead of focusing on
trying to do some kind of Revenge or
whatever they are trying to do I think
the only option we have now
unfortunately it's to
clear Gaza so many people in Israel
understand that this Blood circle is not
the solution it never was it never will
be at this point though the Bloodshed
seems like it is far from
over let's have a look at some of the
other news concerning the
conflict the militant islamist group
Hamas says that nine more hostages it
was holding have been killed in Israeli
air strikes on the Gaza Strip on Friday
Hamas reported 13 hostage deaths also
blaming the Israeli bombardment the
Israeli government believes up to 150
hostages were taken during the terrorist
attack a week
ago Egypt and Israel have agreed to let
us citizens leave the Gaza Strip through
the Rafa crossing the only entry point
to the territory not controlled by
Israel the Israeli Army struck the
crossing early this week and says any
use of it into Egypt will be in
coordination with
Israel Lebanon says it will submit a
formal complaint to the UN Security
Council over what it calls Israel's
deliberate killing of Isam Abdullah a
Lebanese National and reuter journalist
Abdullah was killed in southern Lebanon
on Friday while covering clashes on the
border with
Israel German foreign minister analina
bayerbach is in Egypt for talks focused
on the Gaza conflict barbach met
Egyptian foreign minister Sam shukri in
Cairo in a statement Egypt said both
ministers understood the need for quote
immediate cessation of escalation of the
conflict barbach held talks with
visiting Turkish foreign minister hakan
fidan to discuss joint efforts to secure
the release of German
hostages when the sirens ring it's time
to
go this is a routine Israelis know all
too
well for foreigners that sound is
another sign to leave the country while
they still
can well at the beginning I wanted to
stay here to continue studying and
actually I was feeling safe but actually
last night when the siren was off I I
ran into the to the shelter and on the
way to the shelter I fell and I
scratched myself a bit and there is I
saw that okay I'm not really trained or
familiar with this kind of uh situation
so I yeah decided to take the charter
flight with most Airlines cancelling
flights in and out of Israel many
foreigners are depending on repatriation
flights to get home dozens of countries
have set these up after Israel was
struck by the deadliest Terror attacks
in its
history on the other side of Israel's
Iron Wall hundreds of foreign Nationals
are thought to be trying to escape the
besieged territory of
Gaza there's been a glimp of Hope a Us
official said Egypt had agreed to open
its Rafa border crossing and let
foreigners out many have gathered at the
border desperate and
traumatized but there's been no movement
here yet I'm like really in fear and
like every every time I just have to
have the thought of me dying in a bomb
in
Gaza like it's it's not a good thing
thing and like every place I go I go run
away and I just find bombs and I find
dead people and like maybe one day I'll
end up like them but it's a really scary
thing for
me danger is all
around but all people can do here for
now is
wait